Adding Content Item ApiController.cs endpoints documentation (#15512)
OrchardCMS/OrchardCore: src/docs/reference/modules/Contents/README.md

    To log shapes call `@Orchard.ConsoleLog(Model.Content as object)` after calling `@await DisplayAsync(Model.Content)`
    This will allow the shape to execute, and populate the alternates for any child shapes.

## Contents Module RESTful Web API

The `OrchardCore.Contents` module provides RESTful API endpoints via [`ApiController`](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/blob/main/src/OrchardCore.Modules/OrchardCore.Contents/Controllers/ApiController.cs) featuring endpoints to manage _content items_. These endpoints allow for operations such as retrieving, creating, updating, and deleting single content item instances. Access to these endpoints requires authentication and appropriate user role permissions.

### Useful modules and libraries

> 1. We suggest to use the docs about the [GraphQL module](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/Apis.GraphQL/), to be used for querying content items.
> 2. There's a [Swagger module](https://github.com/OrchardCoreContrib/OrchardCoreContrib.Modules/blob/main/src/OrchardCoreContrib.Apis.Swagger/README.md) made by the community and allows you to create APIs documentations using Swagger.
> 3. Lombiq provide [client library](https://github.com/Lombiq/Orchard-Core-API-Client) for communicating with the Orchard Core web APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We suggest you to read the docs about the [GraphQL module](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/Apis.GraphQL/), to be used for querying content items.
- There's a [Swagger module](https://github.com/OrchardCoreContrib/OrchardCoreContrib.Modules/blob/main/src/OrchardCoreContrib.Apis.Swagger/README.md) made by the community that allows you to create APIs documentation using Swagger.
- Lombiq provide a [client library](https://github.com/Lombiq/Orchard-Core-API-Client) for communicating with the Orchard Core web APIs.
```

It is usually better to create a dedicated user for performing API calls, to maintain control over user rights, and to easily activate/deactivate the API user. The `OrchardCore.OpenId` feature allows setting these user role permissions from "Roles > Edit (User)":

- View and edit the OpenID Connect client settings
- View and edit the OpenID Connect server settings
- View and edit the OpenID Connect validation settings
- View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect applications
- View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect scopes.

### Contents API Controller Endpoints

#### <span style="color:blue">GET /api/content/{contentItemId} </span>
##### Parameters

| Name | Located in | Description | Required | Schema |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |

> | contentItemId | path |  | Yes | string |

Reviewer: If the bots suggestion is incorrect, feel free to tell it, it's possible to converse with it like ChatGPT.

> | contentItemId | path |  | Yes | string |

Author: In this case it stopped working because of the cap limit. It was asking to wait n minutes...

    To log shapes call `@Orchard.ConsoleLog(Model.Content as object)` after calling `@await DisplayAsync(Model.Content)`
    This will allow the shape to execute, and populate the alternates for any child shapes.

## Contents Module API Controller

> The `OrchardCore.Contents` module provides an `ApiController.cs` (here the ApiController [source file](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/blob/main/src/OrchardCore.Modules/OrchardCore.Contents/Controllers/ApiController.cs)) featuring endpoints to manage _content items_ created in the Orchard Core "Admin" backoffice. These endpoints allow for operations such as retrieving, creating, updating, and deleting content items instances. Access to these endpoints requires authentication and appropriate user role permissions.

Author: @coderabbitai ok, you can expand it

It is usually better to create a dedicated user for performing API calls, to maintain control over user rights, and to easily activate/deactivate the API user. The `OrchardCore.OpenId` feature allows setting these user role permissions from "Roles > Edit (User)":

- View and edit the OpenID Connect client settings
- View and edit the OpenID Connect server settings
- View and edit the OpenID Connect validation settings
- View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect applications
- View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect scopes.

### Contents API Controller Endpoints

#### <span style="color:blue">GET /api/content/{contentItemId} </span>
##### Parameters

| Name | Located in | Description | Required | Schema |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |
| contentItemId | path |  | Yes | string |

##### Responses

| Code | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| 200 | Success |

***

> #### <span style="color:blue">GET /api/queries/{name} </span>

Reviewer: This wasn't addressed.

> #### <span style="color:blue">GET /api/queries/{name} </span>

Author: Done in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15512/commits/f1a96f6eb46779c2c7ff991c48a6a1ea0531329f

##### Parameters

!!! note
    This endpoint can only be used when the GraphQL feature is active

| Name | Located in | Description | Required | Schema |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |
| name | path |  | Yes | string |
| parameters | query |  | No | string |

##### Responses

| Code | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| 200 | Success |

***

#### <span style="color:green">POST /api/content </span>
##### Parameters

| Name | Located in | Description | Required | Schema |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |
| draft | query |  | No | boolean |

> ##### Body payload example

Reviewer: Add notes how one can create a payload themselves for any content item (like exporting an item and using that JSON as a start).

    To log shapes call `@Orchard.ConsoleLog(Model.Content as object)` after calling `@await DisplayAsync(Model.Content)`
    This will allow the shape to execute, and populate the alternates for any child shapes.

## Contents Module RESTful Web API

> The `OrchardCore.Contents` module provides RESTful API endpoints via [`ApiController`](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/blob/main/src/OrchardCore.Modules/OrchardCore.Contents/Controllers/ApiController.cs) featuring endpoints to manage _content items_. These endpoints allow for operations such as retrieving, creating, updating, and deleting single content item instances. Access to these endpoints requires authentication and appropriate user role permissions.

Reviewer: In the meantime, there's no `ApiController` anymore but minimal API endpoints: https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/tree/main/src/OrchardCore.Modules/OrchardCore.Contents/Endpoints/Api. See https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15294.

Author: @Piedone what can I do? In the current version 1.8.2 we have ApiController, and I noticed that #15294 was merged into the main branch so is not available in 1.8.2, right?

Author: @Piedone and how can I use the Minimal API approach in the 1.8.2 version?

Author: @Piedone, is ApiController still supported in OC? Based on what I've read, I think Minimal APIs are not mature enough to be used in production (screenshot taken from [this page](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/apis?view=aspnetcore-8.0)): 

![image](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/assets/19241483/59b98f99-d1b1-40e2-909a-c1d892a36882)

Reviewer: As a consumer of the API, you don't have to do anything special, since it'll work exactly as it did before. However, the "ApiController" terminology is not correct anymore.

Author: Done [here](https://github.com/MarGraz/OrchardCore/commit/da34ccf51782c0e3dfdd991d45cf5807c30f296f)

### Useful modules and libraries

> 1. We suggest to use the docs about the [GraphQL module](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/Apis.GraphQL/), to be used for querying content items.

Reviewer: Use relative links for all https://docs.orchardcore.net ones instead (see other pages for examples).

Author: Done in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15512/commits/1d1fc8210f426595edb2bd3c11bf2ee862ca9f88

Reviewer: Please make sure that the documentation build passes as well. Currently it fails, see the red X at the bottom of the PR.

2. There's a [Swagger module](https://github.com/OrchardCoreContrib/OrchardCoreContrib.Modules/blob/main/src/OrchardCoreContrib.Apis.Swagger/README.md) made by the community and allows you to create APIs documentations using Swagger.
3. Lombiq provide [client library](https://github.com/Lombiq/Orchard-Core-API-Client) for communicating with the Orchard Core web APIs.

### Activating the "OpenId Authorization Server" and "OpenId Token Validation" Features, and setting User Roles

> To utilize the Orchard Core ApiController endpoints, user accounts must authenticate using the OAuth 2 standard by activating and configuring the "OpenId Authorization Server" and "OpenId Token Validation" features. Detailed configuration steps can be found in the [OpenId Authorization Server documentation](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/OpenId/#authorization-server) and the [OpenId Token Validation documentation](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/OpenId/#token-validation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To utilize the Orchard Core Contents API endpoints, user accounts must authenticate using the OAuth 2 standard by activating and configuring the "OpenId Authorization Server" and "OpenId Token Validation" features. Detailed configuration steps can be found in the [OpenId Authorization Server documentation](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/OpenId/#authorization-server) and the [OpenId Token Validation documentation](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/OpenId/#token-validation).
```

> It is usually better to create a dedicated user for performing API calls, to maintain control over user rights, and to easily activate/deactivate the API user. The `OrchardCore.OpenId` feature allows setting these user role permissions from "Roles > Edit (User)":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is usually better to create a dedicated user for performing API calls, to maintain control over user rights, and to easily activate/deactivate the API user. The `OrchardCore.OpenId` feature allows setting these user role permissions from "Roles → Edit (User)":
```

- View and edit the OpenID Connect client settings
- View and edit the OpenID Connect server settings
- View and edit the OpenID Connect validation settings
- View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect applications
- View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect scopes

### Contents API Controller Endpoints

> #### <span style="color:blue">GET /api/content/{contentItemId} </span>

Reviewer: Don't add styling HTML directly. Something like this will work instead:

```
#### `GET /api/content/{contentItemId}`
```

Author: Done, committed in https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/pull/15512/commits/d5c4472bfa7ad4c570ba7c4833b8fbaaf34a5189

##### Parameters

| Name | Located in | Description | Required | Schema |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |

> | contentItemId | path | The ID of the Content Item to be retrieved | Yes | string |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| contentItemId | path | The ID of the Content Item to be retrieved. | Yes | string |
```

##### Responses

| Code | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| 200 | Success |

***

#### <span style="color:blue">GET /api/queries/{name} </span>

##### Parameters

!!! note
    This endpoint can only be used when the GraphQL feature is active.

| Name | Located in | Description | Required | Schema |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |

> | name | path | The name of the query available in the Query panel | Yes | string |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| name | path | The name of the query available in the Query panel. | Yes | string |
```

##### Responses

| Code | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| 200 | Success |

***

#### <span style="color:green">POST /api/content </span>

##### Parameters

| Name | Located in | Description | Required | Schema |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |
|  | payload | The content item model to be updated | Yes | Json |

##### Body payload example

```json
{
  "contentItem": "string",
  "id": 0,
  "contentItemId": "string",
  "contentItemVersionId": "string",
  "contentType": "string",
  "published": true,
  "latest": true,
  "modifiedUtc": "2024-03-14T11:40:20.331Z",
  "publishedUtc": "2024-03-14T11:40:20.331Z",
  "createdUtc": "2024-03-14T11:40:20.331Z",
  "owner": "string",
  "author": "string",
  "displayText": "string"
}
```

> > This payload example model was obtained using the GraphiQL, panel available in the Admin backoffice: _Configuration_ > _GraphiQL_. In this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8SbW3TLNhF0) you can find an overview on how to use GraphiQL. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This payload example model was obtained using the GraphiQL panel available in the Admin: _Configuration_ → _GraphiQL_. In this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8SbW3TLNhF0) you can find an overview of how to use GraphiQL. 
```

##### Responses

| Code | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| 200 | Success |

***

#### <span style="color:green">POST /api/queries/{name} </span>

##### Parameters

!!! note

>     This endpoint can only be used when the GraphQL feature is active

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This endpoint can only be used when the GraphQL feature is active.
```

| Name | Located in | Description | Required | Schema |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |

> | name | path | The name of the query available in the Query panel | Yes | string |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| name | path | The name of the query available in the Query panel. | Yes | string |
```

##### Responses

| Code | Description |
| ---- | ----------- |
| 200 | Success |

***

#### <span style="color:red">DELETE /api/content/{contentItemId}</span>

##### Parameters

| Name | Located in | Description | Required | Schema |
| ---- | ---------- | ----------- | -------- | ---- |

> | contentItemId | path | The ID of the Content Item to be deleted | Yes | string |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| contentItemId | path | The ID of the Content Item to be deleted. | Yes | string |
```

    To log shapes call `@Orchard.ConsoleLog(Model.Content as object)` after calling `@await DisplayAsync(Model.Content)`
    This will allow the shape to execute, and populate the alternates for any child shapes.

## Contents Module RESTful Web API

The `OrchardCore.Contents` module provides RESTful API endpoints via [`minimal API`](https://github.com/OrchardCMS/OrchardCore/tree/main/src/OrchardCore.Modules/OrchardCore.Contents/Endpoints/Api) featuring endpoints to manage _content items_. These endpoints allow for operations such as retrieving, creating, updating, and deleting single content item instances. Access to these endpoints requires authentication and appropriate user role permissions.

### Useful modules and libraries

> - We suggest you to read the docs about the [GraphQL module](../Apis.GraphQL/README.md), to be used for querying content items.
> - There's a [Swagger module](https://github.com/OrchardCoreContrib/OrchardCoreContrib.Modules/blob/main/src/OrchardCoreContrib.Apis.Swagger/README.md) made by the community, that allows you to create APIs documentation using Swagger.
> - Lombiq provide a [client library](https://github.com/Lombiq/Orchard-Core-API-Client) for communicating with the Orchard Core web APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We would suggest you read the docs about the [GraphQL module](../Apis.GraphQL/README.md), to be used for querying content items.
- There's a [Swagger module](https://github.com/OrchardCoreContrib/OrchardCoreContrib.Modules/blob/main/src/OrchardCoreContrib.Apis.Swagger/README.md) made by the community, that allows you to create APIs documentation using Swagger.
- Lombiq provide a [client library](https://github.com/Lombiq/Orchard-Core-API-Client) for communicating with the Orchard Core web APIs.
```

> ### Activating the "OpenId Authorization Server" and "OpenId Token Validation" Features, and setting User Roles
> 
> To utilize the Orchard Core Contents API endpoints, user accounts must authenticate using the OAuth 2 standard by activating and configuring the "OpenId Authorization Server" and "OpenId Token Validation" features. Detailed configuration steps can be found in the [OpenId Authorization Server documentation](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/OpenId/#authorization-server) and the [OpenId Token Validation documentation](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/OpenId/#token-validation).
> 
> It is usually better to **create a dedicated user for performing API calls**, to maintain control over user rights, and to easily activate/deactivate the API user. The `OrchardCore.OpenId` feature allows setting these user role permissions from "Roles → Edit (User)". Those are the available permissions:
> 
> - View and edit the OpenID Connect client settings
> - View and edit the OpenID Connect server settings
> - View and edit the OpenID Connect validation settings
> - View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect applications
> - View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect scopes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Activating the "OpenId Authorization Server" and "OpenId Token Validation" Features, and setting User Roles

To utilize the Orchard Core Contents API endpoints, user accounts must authenticate using the OAuth 2 standard by activating and configuring the "OpenId Authorization Server" and "OpenId Token Validation" features. Detailed configuration steps can be found in the [OpenId Authorization Server documentation](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/OpenId/#authorization-server) and the [OpenId Token Validation documentation](https://docs.orchardcore.net/en/main/docs/reference/modules/OpenId/#token-validation).

It is usually better to **create a dedicated user for performing API calls**, maintain control over user rights, and easily activate/deactivate the API user. The `OrchardCore.OpenId` feature allows setting these user role permissions from "Roles → Edit (User)". Those are the available permissions:

- View and edit the OpenID Connect client settings
- View and edit the OpenID Connect server settings
- View and edit the OpenID Connect validation settings
- View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect applications
- View, add, edit, and remove the OpenID Connect scopes
```
